For The Motion
Bitcoin is going mainstream. The Cboe and CME recently debuted Bitcoin futures, and Wall Street giant Goldman Sachs has announced plans to launch a desk to trade bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.
By placing control in the hands of users – not nations – Bitcoin promises to revolutionize global finance. This decentralized currency is free from government oversight, and thus not liable to the types of political and corporate corruption rampant in traditional fiat currencies.
Bitcoin is a force for good. The currency without a nation allows users to send money to friends and family across international borders instantly without paying high fees, which directly advantages low-income immigrants.
For those living in unstable and unpredictable economies, including Venezuela and Argentina, investing in bitcoin offers an unprecedented opportunity to safeguard assets against rampant inflation, regulatory uncertainty, and political unrest.
Against The Motion
Bitcoin is a bubble. The cryptocurrency is extremely volatile and, though its creator set limits on its manufacturing, others could easily create bitcoin substitutes that drive down its value and render the cryptocurrency obsolete.
The American dollar is backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. By comparison, bitcoin was created by a man who can’t be identified and is monitored by a network of users who remain anonymous. Consumers are unlikely to adopt the cryptocurrency in the numbers necessary for it to truly challenge fiat currencies in the global market.
Bitcoin serves as a conduit to crime. Free from government oversight, bitcoin has been used to slight international sanctions and move funds to criminal groups including terrorists, drug dealers, and human traffickers.
Trust in bitcoin’s benevolence is misguided. Unlike central governments and established global institutions, bitcoin creators and users face few consequences should they choose to destroy or devalue the cryptocurrency for personal gain.
