For The Motion
Americans rely on the internet to learn, work, and play. It must be protected, and regulated, as a modern-day public utility.
Net neutrality is essential to a free and open internet. By preventing service providers from blocking content and mandating that all data must be treated equally, these regulations keep the web free from digital gatekeepers and promote a true exchange of ideas online.
Without net neutrality rules, major companies like Verizon, Comcast, and AT&T could implement policies that favor their own companies over competitors, and disadvantage startups and small organizations that don’t have the means to compete for access to internet users.
Net neutrality benefits consumers. By prohibiting “pay-to-play” pricing structures that require consumers to pay more for premium services like audio and video streaming, net neutrality ensures content on the web is equally accessible to all, not only to those who can afford it.
Against The Motion
In 2015, the FCC set out to solve a problem that didn’t exist. The internet hadn’t been corrupted by nefarious forces or restricted to only those willing to pay high fees. These Obama-era net neutrality regulations represent little more than unnecessary government overreach.
Internet service providers are not a threat to democracy. Before the 2015 regulations took effect, consumers were able to access content and ideas online without fear of digital gatekeepers. Market demand is a better assurance the web will remain open and democratic than politically motivated government regulators.
Net neutrality regulations are bad for business. By limiting potential revenue streams, these rules deter internet service providers from investing in broadband networks and working to bring high-quality, affordable internet access to consumers around the nation.
Not all data is created equal. Net neutrality regulations, which limit the types of services available to consumers, drive up the cost of internet access for consumers around the nation and deprive rural and low-income communities of connectivity options that would best suit their needs.
