For The Motion
The Framers separated the powers of government into three branches and established a system of checks and balances to guard against abuse of those powers. There has been a pattern of overreach by the executive branch. As James Madison wrote in Federalist No. 51, "[i]n republican government, the legislative authority necessarily predominates."
With executive orders, administrative regulations, creative interpretations of federal statutes, and executive agreements with other nations, it may seem that the president, not Congress, wields the most potent legislative power.
Article II, Section 3 of the Constitution states that the president “shall take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed,” a duty Obama flouted by taking unilateral action to suspend the employer mandate of Obamacare, and through his executive orders on immigration, DACA and DAPA.
The Constitution clearly states Congress alone has the power to declare war. Obama exceeded his authority by waging war in Libya without congressional consent.
The president’s use of recess appointments is, as Justice Scalia wrote, “[a] self-aggrandizing practice adopted by one branch well after the founding, often challenged, and never before blessed by [the Supreme Court].”
Against The Motion
Strong executive power has been necessary for an effective and functioning government. The Framers feared the abuse of power, but they also feared a weak executive unable to enforce the laws of our nation. In Federalist No. 70, Alexander Hamilton argued for a strong, “energetic” president, writing that “[a] feeble Executive implies a feeble execution of the government.”
Over time, Congress has given the president enormous discretion to determine our nation’s policy.
With DACA and DAPA, the Obama administration has exercised prosecutorial discretion to make the best use of limited resources to prioritize the removal of undocumented immigrants who pose a threat to security, and defer the removal of others.
The president has authority to use military force without a declaration of war. The Libya intervention fell short of war—it did not involve sustained fighting or ground troops—and fell within the limits of the War Powers Resolution.
On presidential recess appointments, Justice Breyer wrote, that we should be reluctant to “upset this traditional practice where doing so would seriously shrink the authority that presidents have believed existed and have exercised for so long.”
