For The Motion
There is a perception that government has the ability to sweep up all of our digital information—but meaningful details gleaned from metadata is limited, and not all data is backed up to the cloud. Access to devices yields information that cannot be obtained otherwise.
The 4th Amendment authorizes searches when law enforcement is granted search warrants approved by a judge. With ever-evolving technology, law enforcement is simply seeking the communications it is already authorized to intercept, and end-to-end encryption would subvert this constitutional provision.
Encryption is the “equivalent of a closet that can’t be opened, a safe that can’t be cracked,” and there are consequences for law enforcement and national security. It hampers our ability to prosecute criminals, exonerate the innocent, and prevent future attacks.
The All Writs Act grants the courts “the power to issue orders to compel people to do things within the limits of the law.” A government request for consumer data is often within these limits, including in the high profile Apple case.
Against The Motion
We need both privacy and security, but in this “Golden Age of Surveillance,” where nearly all of our communications and movements are tracked by some piece of technology, we need to do more to protect consumers’ privacy.
The government is relying on an overbroad interpretation of the All Writs Act that is in violation of the 4th Amendment. Requiring companies to comply with demands to hand over data and build backdoors today will set up a dangerous precedent.
Law enforcement’s demands for access to customer data on devices like the Amazon Echo, or iPhone, are in violation of the 1st Amendment and the right to free expression.
Our greatest security threats will come from hackers and rogue nations that use cyberattacks and economic espionage to hurt us. In the end, creating “back doors” and compromising encryption only makes us more vulnerable.
There are many ways for bad actors to hide their actions from government. The use of encrypted apps would render an unlocked phone useless.
