For The Motion
With the loss of public trust and the weakening of the Democratic Party, Obamacare cannot survive its escalating political crisis, which will likely break down the law piece-by-piece through delays and legislative cuts.
With the botched launch of healthcare.gov, its main consumer interface, Obamacare lost many of the customers its success depends upon: the young and healthy needed to balance the costs of the old and sick.
Due to the absence of major insurers in the majority of exchanges, the marketplace is failing and will only worsen in 2015.
As written, the Affordable Care Act has inhibited competition, disincentivizing the full participation of insurance companies with its severe restrictions on what kind of plans can be offered. Despite promises to increase and improve health coverage, Obamacare has severely limited provider access and jeopardized the quality of medical care through its "narrow networks," a challenge which will repel patients, doctors, hospitals, and insurers alike.
Though the website is largely fixed on the consumer side, massive problems are still unresolved—mainly, the lack of any technical infrastructure to provide insurers with the consumer information required to launch plans and provide coverage.
Against The Motion
While the launch of healthcare.gov was an unmitigated disaster, the bulk of Obamacare's rollout over the past three and a half years has been largely successful, from the coverage of people with pre-existing conditions to evidence-based preventive services.
Obamacare has had better-than-expected results on many fronts, decreasing costs through pay-for-quality reforms, rapidly lowering medical inflation, and sparking a new tide of innovation.
The alarmist anecdotes of rising medical costs and lowered provider access under Obamacare do not indicate its failure; while unfortunate, these issues are few and insignificant compared to the increased coverage that Obamacare will provide to previously uninsured Americans. Millions of Americans will have signed up in the exchanges by the time the open enrollment period ends, with even more following for 2015.
Major medical organizations, as well as many in the health-care industry, believe that increased participation is far more likely than a death spiral. From its doomsday scenarios to its constant rhetorical attacks, the Republican Party has waged a relentless war on Obamacare in hopes that constructing a narrative of its failure will induce its failure. Their attempt at sabotage is a political fantasy—the democrats will remain united behind it.
The successes of certain states' exchanges (such as Kentucky), as well as health care reform in Massachusetts, signify Obamacare's workability on the federal level. As with any large and complex enterprise, it will continue to face hurdles, but these do not signify its failure.
